
 

 

Adult Temperament Questionnaire (ATQ) 
 
 

 The Adult Temperament Questionnaire (ATQ) was adapted from the 

Physiological Reactions Questionnaire developed by Derryberry and Rothbart (1988).  

Based upon the results from recent studies (Rothbart, Ahadi, & Evans, 2000; Evans & 

Rothbart, 2007) we have formulated a self-report model of temperament that includes 

general constructs of effortful control, negative affect (which can be further divided into 

aggressive and nonaggressive negative affects) extraversion/surgency, orienting 

sensitivity, and affiliativeness.   

References 

 

Derryberry, D. & Rothbart, M.K. (1988).  Arousal, affect, and attention as components of 

temperament.  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 55, 958-966. 

 

Rothbart, M. K., Ahadi, S. A., & Evans D. E. (2000).  Temperament and personality: 

Origins and outcomes.  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 78, 122-

135. 

Evans, D. E., & Rothbart, M. K. (2007).  Development of a model for adult 

temperament.  Journal of Research in Personality, 41, 868-888. 

Evans, D. E., & Rothbart, M. K. (2008).  Temperamental sensitivity: Two constructs or 

one? Personality and Individual Differences, 44, 108-118. 

Evans, D. E., & Rothbart, M. K. (2007).  A Two-Factor Model of Temperament.  

Manuscript submitted. 

 



 SCORING INSTRUCTION FOR ATQ LONG FORM (249 items) 

 

 

UPDATED SEPTEMBER 2007 

 

Contact David Evans at David.Evans@Moffitt.org if you have any questions or need 

additional information. 

 

For reliabilities and norms, etc., please refer to Evans and Rothbart (2007). 

 

  

 

Scoring Instructions for Evans & Rothbart (2007) ATQ long form  

Reversed (R) Items:  After the initial coding of the questionnaire, reversed items 

need to be reverse coded (i.e., a response of 1=7, 2=6, 3=5, 4=4, 5=3, 6=2, and 7=1). 

Items that are reversed are marked with an “R” next to their item number in the listing of 

items by scale.   

Subscales/Subconstructs are listed in bold print.  To score the subscales, add all 

of the Likert-responses within a given scale together and divide by the number of valid 

item responses.   

General Scales/Constructs are listed in capitalized, underlined print.  To score 

general scales for the long form, add the AVERAGE Likert score from each subscale and 

then divide by the total number of items belonging to that scale.   

Item clusters are used to further differentiate the content of subscales and are 

listed in italics.  Not all of the main-scales are divided into item clusters.  If particular 

item clusters are of interest, they can be scored in the same manner as the subscales.  

However, in most instances, it is likely that the main scales and/or factor scales will be 

the variables of interest. 

mailto:David.Evans@Moffitt.org


Hierarchical Listing of Constructs and Table of Contents 
 

General Scales underlined in bold print 

Subscales in bold print (not underlined) 

Item Clusters in italics 

 
NEGATIVE AFFECT (p. 4)  EFFORTFUL CONTROL  (p. 7) 

Fear   (p. 4)  Inhibitory Control   (p. 7) 

Primary Fear    Activation Control   (p. 7) 

Secondary Fear    Attentional Control   (p. 8) 

Sadness   (p. 4)  Attentional Shifting from Punishment 

Reactive Sadness    Attentional Shifting from Reward 

Endogenous Sadness   Attentional Focusing 

Discomfort  (p. 5)  Attentional Shifting 

Visual 

Auditory 

Tactile 

Olfactory-Gustatory 

Frustration  (p. 8) 

Social Anger  (p. 9) 

Aggression Control (p. 9) 
 
EXTRAVERSION (p. 9)   ORIENTING REACTIVITY (p. 11) 

Sociability  (p. 9)   Neutral Perceptual Sensitivity (p. 11) 

Positive Affect  (p. 9)   Internal 

Frequency and Duration of Positive Affect  Visual 

Intensity of Positive Affect    Auditory 

Threshold for Positive Affect   Tactile 

High Pleasure  (p. 10)   Olfactory-Gustatory 

Intense Environmental Pleasure   Affective Perceptual Sensitivity (p. 12) 

Intense Behavioral Pleasure   Aesthetic 

Novel Behavioral Pleasure   Social      

      Associative Sensitivity  (p. 13) 

AFFILIATIVNESS (p. 14)   Coherent 

Emotional Empathy (p. 14)   Intrusive  

Emotional Empathy t to Animals   Activity 

Emotional Empathy to Positive Affect (humans) Dream States 

Emotional Empathy to Negative Affect (humans) 

Empathetic Guilt (p. 14) 

Social Closeness  (p. 15) 

Active Closeness 

Receptive Closeness 

Relationship Closeness 



  

NEGATIVE AFFECT 

Fear: Negative affect associated with the anticipation of pain or distress. (Alpha = .76,  N=258 

undergraduates) 

Primary Fear 

1. I  become easily frightened. 

21. Looking down at the ground from an extremely high place makes me feel uneasy. 

82. When I am enclosed in small places such as an elevator, I feel uneasy. 

116. Loud noises sometimes scare me. 

137R. It does not frighten me if I think that I am alone and suddenly discover someone close by. 

166. Sometimes, I feel a sense of panic or terror for no apparent reason. 

Secondary Fear (Worry) 

60. I often worry about things that turn out to be unimportant.  

99R. I rarely worry. 

150. I am always worried about something. 

203. I often think about the possibility of negative outcomes that are not likely to occur. 

225R. When I try something new, I am rarely concerned about the possibility of failing. 

Sadness:  The amount of lowered mood that is related to object or person loss, disappointment, and 

exposure to suffering. (Alpha = .80) 

Reactive Sadness:  The amount of lowered mood that results from explicit awareness of information that is 

extracted from or associated with the immediate environment.   

3R. I seldom become sad when I watch a sad movie.  

45R. I seldom become sad when I hear of an unhappy event.  

65. I feel sad when saying goodbye to friends or relatives that I know I will not see for a long time.  

74. Sometimes minor events cause me to feel intense sadness. 

106. When I hear of an unhappy event, I immediately feel sad. 

142. I usually feel weepy while reading the sad part of a story. 

180R. I rarely feel sad after saying goodbye to friends or relatives. 

Endogenous Sadness:  The extent to which chronic lowered mood is experienced. 

88R. I rarely ever feel depressed for more than an hour or two. 

240. On some days, I have felt so depressed that simple activities like talking required a lot of effort. 

23. I sometimes feel sad for longer than an hour. 

119. In comparison to other people, I seem to experience longer periods of sadness or  

 depression. 

164. Sometimes relatively small disappointments cause me to feel down for several hours. 

76. I often feel sad. 

200. Sometimes I feel very depressed. 



Discomfort: The amount of unpleasant affect resulting from the sensory qualities of stimulation, including 

irritation, pain, and discomfort resulting the intensity, rate, complexity of light, movement, sound, 

smell/taste, temperature, and texture.  (Alpha = .72) 

Visual Discomfort 

42. I'm often bothered by light that is too bright.  

122. Very bright colors sometimes bother me.  

185. Colorful flashing lights bother me. 

Auditory Discomfort 

57. I find certain scratchy sounds very irritating.  

134. I find loud noises to be very irritating.  

192. Loud music is unpleasant to me.   

Tactile Discomfort 

114. Sometimes I find it irritating when something lightly touches my skin unexpectedly. 

146R. I rarely find it irritating when something touches my skin. 

 206. When I wear a tight collar or turtleneck, it makes me uncomfortable. 

Olfactory-Gustatory Discomfort 

16. Foul odors seem to bother me more than other people. 

38. There are a lot of different food dishes that I find to taste very unpleasant. 

173. I find many aromas/fragrances to be unpleasant. 

236R. Foul odors don’t bother me very much. 

Frustration:  The amount of unpleasant affect related to the interruption of ongoing tasks and behavior or 

to the blocking of a desired goal.  (Alpha = .80) 

10. I am rarely a patient person. 

25. I often get irritated when I'm trying to make an important phone call and get a busy signal.  

47R. I rarely become annoyed when I have to wait in a slow moving line.  

78R. I seldom become annoyed when I'm driving somewhere and hit successive red lights.  

110R. I seldom become irritated when someone is late.  

139. I find it very annoying when a store does not stock an item that I wish to buy.  

151. It doesn't take very much to make feel frustrated or irritated. 

170. I find it quite annoying to have to wait a few minutes for a phone connection. 

196. I get very annoyed when poor weather interferes with my plans for an outdoor activity.  

218R. When everything seems to be going wrong, I usually work on improving things instead of getting 

frustrated. 

232. Whenever I have to sit and wait for something (e.g., a waiting room), I become agitated. 

234R. I am usually a patient person. 

247R. I usually remain calm without getting frustrated when things are not going smoothly for me. 



Social Anger:  The amount of affective hostility that is felt toward other people.  (Alpha = .81) 

17. Sometimes I feel angry at people for no apparent reason. 

43. I often become irritated in response to what a person says.   

95R. I rarely feel angry at people. 

126. When people don't live up to my expectations, I become frustrated and angry with them. 

147R. I rarely stay angry at someone for a prolonged period of time. 

177. I sometimes feel quite jealous of other people’s situations. 

188R. I rarely become angry at my friends. 

197R. I rarely feel jealous of other people’s relationships. 

242. I sometimes find my friends to be irritating. 

30. It doesn’t take much to make me feel angry at someone. 

39. Sometimes I feel anger toward people I don’t know very well. 

195. When I interact with a group of people, there is often at least one person who bothers me. 

Aggression Control:  The level of effectiveness and ease in inhibiting aggressive behavior.  (Alpha = .84) 

66R. It is difficult for me to inhibit the impulse to say angry things that will hurt someone's feelings. 

15. I do not have a problem in controlling hostile impulses. 

103R. Although I may regret it later, sometimes when I am angry, I throw, tear, or destroy things. 

115R. I often have a hard time resisting the impulse to be insulting to another person. 

85. If I think of something rude that I want to say, I am usually able to resist the temptation to say it. 

135R. I have a hard time not becoming verbally hostile or offensive to someone who I believe has treated 

me unjustly, even if it might be damaging to my future.   

181. Even if I am extremely angry at someone, I am usually pretty good at dealing with this person in a 

civil manner.  

159. If I am angry because I suspect that I have been treated unfairly, I calm down and try to think 

things out. 

239R. When I am angry, I lose the ability to think things out rationally. 

109. If I am angry with a friend, I usually try to talk to my friend and tell him how I feel in a manner 

that will not evoke a hostile response. 

161R. Once I have become angry, my anger seems to feed on itself and become more and more difficult 

to manage. 

70. If I want to, I can conceal my dislike for a person.  

220R. I sometimes explode into an angry outburst before I understand what is really happening.  

149R. It is sometimes hard for me to keep from saying something mean. 



EFFORTFUL CONTROL 

Inhibitory Control:  The capacity to suppress positively toned impulses and thereby resist the execution of 

inappropriate approach tendencies.  (Alpha = .65) 

28. It is easy for me to hold back my laughter in a situation when laughter wouldn't be 

 appropriate.  

41R. When I see an attractive item in a store, it's usually very hard for me to resist buying it.   

55. I can easily resist talking out of turn, even when I'm excited and want to express an idea.   

86R. When I'm excited about something, it's usually hard for me to resist jumping right into it.  

107. Even when I feel energized, I can usually sit still without much trouble if it's necessary.  

128R.   I often avoid taking care of responsibilities by indulging in pleasurable activities. 

140R. At times, it seems the more I try to restrain a pleasurable impulse (e.g., eating candy), the more 

likely I am to act on it. 

172. It is easy for me to inhibit fun behavior that would be inappropriate. 

186. If I want to, it is usually easy for me to keep a secret. 

205. When I decide to quit a habitual behavioral pattern that I believe to be undesirable, I am usually 

successful.  

223R. I often have trouble resisting my cravings for food drink, etc.   

*237. It is not very hard for me to put aside pleasant activities when I have work to do. 

Activation Control:  The capacity to suppress negatively toned impulses and thereby resist the execution 

of inappropriate avoidance  tendencies.  (Alpha = .84) 

32. I usually finish doing things before they are actually due (e.g., paying bills, finishing 

 homework, etc.). 

50R. I am often late for appointments. 

62R. I often make plans that I do not follow through with. 

84. As soon as I have decided upon a difficult plan of action, I begin to carry it out. 

96. If I think of something that needs to be done, I usually get right to work on it. 

124R. Even when I have enough time to complete an activity today, I often tell myself that I will do it 

tomorrow. 

138R. If I notice I need to clean or wash something  (e.g., car, apartment, laundry, etc.), I often  put it off 

until tomorrow. 

156R. When I am afraid of how a situation might turn out, I usually avoid dealing with it. 

179. I can keep performing a task even when I would rather not do it.  

199. I usually get my responsibilities taken care of as soon as possible. 

215R. I hardly ever finish things on time.  

230. I can make myself work on a difficult task even when I don't feel like trying.  



Attentional Control:  The ability to intentionally shift and focus awareness in relation to task relevant 

stimuli and thoughts.  (Alpha = 88) 

Attentional Shifting from Punishment 

71R. When I am anxious about the outcome of something, I have a hard time keeping my attention 

focused on a task. 

112R. It is very hard for me to focus my attention when I am distressed. 

189R. When I am sad about something, it is hard for me to keep my attention focused on a task. 

Attentional Shifting from Reward 

89R. When I am especially happy, I sometimes have a hard time concentrating on tasks that require me 

to keep track of several things at once. 

131R. When I hear good news, my ability to concentrate on taking care of my responsibilities goes out 

the window. 

213R. When I am happy and excited about an upcoming event, I have a hard time focusing my attention 

on tasks that require concentration. 

Attentional Focusing 

6R. When I am trying to focus my attention, I am easily distracted.  

53R. When trying to study something, I have difficulty tuning out background noise and 

 concentrating.  

226R. When trying to focus my attention on something, I have difficulty blocking out  

 distracting thoughts.  

Attentional Shifting 

68. I am usually pretty good at keeping track of several things that are happening around me.  

175R. It’s often hard for me to alternate between two different tasks.  

241. When interrupted or distracted, I usually can easily shift my attention back to whatever I was 

doing before. 

 



EXTRAVERSION, ORIENTING, AND AFFILIATION 

 

EXTRAVERSION 

Sociability:  The amount of enjoyment derived from social interaction and being in the presence of others.  

(Alpha = .89) 

2. I usually like to spend my free time with people. 

9.  Sometimes I feel good throughout most of the day. 

22. I usually enjoy being with people. 

46. I would enjoy a job that involves a lot of social interaction. 

59R. I rarely enjoy being with people. 

67R.     I would not enjoy a job that involves socializing with the public. 

80R. I rarely enjoy talking. 

101. I often enjoy conversations that last for hours. 

125. Even when engaging in fun activities that do not allow for much social interaction, I like to be 

with friends.  

148. I usually like to talk a lot. 

168. I enjoy being around people who talk a lot. 

182. I often enjoy talking to strangers. 

198R. I rarely enjoy socializing with large groups of people. 

216. I like conversations that include several people. 

238R. In comparison to other people, I seem to derive less enjoyment from interacting with people. 

Positive Affect:  The rate of onset, rate of rising intensity, level of intensity, duration, and frequency with 

respect to experiencing pleasure.  (Alpha = .84) 

Frequency and Duration of Positive Affect 

4R. I rarely feel happy. 

27R. When I feel happy, it usually does not last very long. 

90. When I don't feel unhappy, I usually feel happy instead of neutral. 

Intensity of Positive Affect 

19. There have been numerous moments in my life that felt so good that I could not  imagine feeling 

any better. 

34. Sometimes minor events cause me to feel intense pleasure. 

152. Without mind altering substances, I have sometimes felt incredibly intense pleasure. 

178.  I rarely ever have days where I don't at least experience brief moments of intense  

 happiness. 

Threshold of Positive Affect 

63R. I sometimes seem to be unable to feel pleasure from events and activities that I should enjoy. 

104. It doesn't take much to evoke a happy response in me. 

194R. It takes a lot to make me feel truly happy. 



High Pleasure:  The amount of positive affect related to stimuli, situations, or  activities involving high 

intensity, rate, or complexity.  (Alpha = .77) 

Intense Environmental Pleasure 

51R. I would not enjoy listening to loud music with a laser light show. 

127. When listening to music, I usually like turn up the volume more than other people. 

154R. I would probably not enjoy a fast, wild carnival ride. 

158. I would probably enjoy playing a challenging and fast paced video-game that makes lots  of noise 

and has lots of flashing, bright lights. 

190. I would enjoy watching a laser show with lots of bright, colorful flashing lights.  

Novel Environmental Pleasure 

20. I like to be around people who have a spontaneous sense of humor. 

245. I would probably enjoy playing a challenging and fast paced video-game that makes lots of noise 

and has lots of flashing, bright lights. 

210. I like to be around people who are different from me. 

Intense Behavioral Pleasure 

29. I often enjoy singing with abandon when in a car or walking.  

130R. I would not enjoy fast dancing. 

176. I have an intense, boisterous laugh. 

222R. I would not enjoy the feeling that comes from yelling as loud as I can.  

Novel Behavioral Pleasure:  The amount of pleasure related to one's own spontaneous and novel behavior.   

37R. I rarely enjoy behaving in a silly manner. 

72. During my free time, I often find myself doing things I did not plan. 

248. I often enjoy telling jokes or behaving in a humorous manner. 

144. I especially enjoy conversations where I am able to say things without thinking first. 

208R. I rarely enjoy dancing in a spontaneous manner. 



ORIENTING SENSITIVITY 

General Perceptual Sensitivity:  The amount of explicit awareness of slight, low intensity external 

(environmental) and internal (within the body) stimuli.  (Alpha = .81)  

Internal Sensitivity: 

5R. I usually fail to notice it when my muscles tense up just slightly. 

83R. I am rarely aware of it when my heart speeds up. 

201R. I'm seldom aware of internal sensations within my body. 

Visual Sensitivity:   

12. I usually notice visual details in the environment. 

18R. I rarely notice the color of people's eyes. 

100. I sometimes notice the designs in the grain of wood in a piece of furniture. 

102R. Barely noticeable visual details rarely catch my attention. 

229R. I rarely notice the details of the clothing that someone is wearing. 

Auditory Sensitivity: 

31. I'm often aware of the sounds of birds in my vicinity. 

111. I usually notice when the environment is quiet. 

233R. I usually don't notice sounds that are familiar (e.g., traffic by where I live or another  familiar 

place. 

Tactile Sensitivity: 

44. I'm often sensitive to the smoothness or roughness of objects that I touch. 

123R. I am rarely aware of the texture of things that I hold. 

211. When I am barefoot, I am often aware of the different textures of the surfaces that my feet 

 touch. 

Olfactory-Gustatory Sensitivity: 

56. I can detect the slightest changes in food flavoring. 

136. I often notice mild odors and fragrances. 

244R.  I am usually unaware of mild odors and fragrances. 



Affective Perceptual Sensitivity: The amount of emotionally valenced explicit cognition that is directly 

associated with low intensity stimuli. (Alpha = .90) 

Aesthetic Affective Perceptual Sensitivity:  The amount of emotionally valenced explicit cognition that is 

directly associated with low intensity stimuli other than a real person. 

36. When I am listening to music, I am usually aware of subtle emotional tones.  

7. I tend to notice emotional aspects of paintings and pictures. 

58. Sometimes when I hear a song that I have not heard in a long time, I experience  

 memories that are charged with emotion. 

73. When I watch a movie, I often notice that the rain, snow, wind, sunshine, etc. is used to convey the 

mood of the characters. 

249. I am often consciously aware of how the weather seems to affect my mood. 

94R. I am rarely aware of how the interior design of a room (i.e. colors, windows etc.) affects my mood. 

129R. I am rarely aware of how my physical environment affects my mood. 

167. I am usually aware of emotions that are portrayed in various types of artistic expression (e.g., 

painting, photography, music, dance, etc.). 

191. When I look at paintings or pictures, I am sometimes aware of how an artist might be using light 

and color to convey mood. 

207. I sometimes smell things that evoke memories that are charged with emotion.  

217. I am often aware how the color and lighting of a room affects my mood. 

235. When I watch a movie, I am usually unaware of how the setting is used to convey the mood of the 

characters.   

Social Affective Perceptual Sensitivity:    The amount of emotionally valenced explicit cognition that is 

directly associated with low intensity aspects of a (real) person's behavior and position in space. 

26R. I am rarely aware of the moods of people around me. 

40. Sometimes I notice sad eyes hidden behind a smile.  

97. Looking into a person's eyes sometimes gives me a pretty good idea of whether or not someone is 

telling the truth. 

133R. I rarely notice when another person's tone of voice doesn't match their words. 

157. I usually notice when people are trying to pretend that they are not afraid. 

227. I can usually tell when someone is masking their emotions with a pleasant smile. 



Associative Sensitivity:  The frequency, diversity, and remoteness of unconsciously produced  conscious 

content that is not related to effortful control or standard associations with the immediate environment.  

(Alpha = .85) 

Coherent Associative Sensitivity:  The amount of Associative Sensitivity that is conceptually coherent and 

related to understanding a problem (e.g., intuition), finding a solution (creativity), and/or intrinsically 

aesthetically pleasing.  

33. I don't have to think very hard to generate unique or creative ideas. 

52R. I rarely have rich fantasies that include intricate details. 

87. I sometimes seem to understand things intuitively. 

143. I sometimes experience sudden intuitive insights before I have actually thought things out. 

183. Without applying effort, creative ideas sometimes present themselves to me. 

243. If I were engaged in a creative activity, it would take little effort for my mind to generate 

 spontaneous ideas. 

Intrusive Associative Sensitivity:  Waking Associative Sensitivity that is not in any way obviously or 

directly related to meaningful, goal oriented thoughts and behaviors (in other words the opposite of 

Coherent Associative Sensitivity).   

14R. I rarely daydream.  

81. When I am waiting to fall asleep, I sometimes experience thoughts or sounds that I did not 

consciously produce . 

145. When I am resting with my eyes closed, I sometimes see visual images. 

193R. I seldom see images (e.g. a face) when looking at the moon, cloud    

 formations, etc. 

Associative Activity Level:  The amount of unconsciously produced conscious content that is not related to 

effortful control or standard associations with the immediate environment.   

75. Sometimes my mind is full of thoughts, ideas, and images. 

92. Even when I am waiting to fall asleep, my mind is still quite active. 

162. When I am relaxing, my mind is still quite active. 

204. Sometimes my mind is full of a diverse array of loosely connected thoughts and images. 

Dream States:  The frequency, duration, level of intensity, vividness, novelty, incongruity, intricacy of plot, 

and diversity and remoteness of dream content (sleep dreams).  I sometimes dream of vivid, detailed 

settings that are unlike anything that I have experienced when awake. 

48. My dreams sometimes include an elaborate and detailed plot. 

118. I sometimes dream of vivid, detailed settings that are unlike anything I have experienced when 

awake. 

121R. I rarely have several dreams during the same night. 

219R. I rarely dream (sleep dreams). 



AFFILIATIVENESS 

Emotional Empathy: The degree of affective response congruent with what others appear to feel. (Alpha 

= .75) 

Emotional Empathy to Animals. 

54. When I see a happy animal such as a playful dog or a purring cat, it makes me feel happy. 

153. Seeing an animal in pain would be very distressing to me. 

Emotional Empathy to Positive Affect (humans) 

69. When I am around someone who feels happy, it often causes me to feel happy. 

120R. Whenever I am around someone who is happy and excited, it often doesn't feel very real to me. 

209R. When I am around someone who feels excited and happy, it rarely causes me to feel happy too. 

Emotional Empathy to Negative Affect (humans) 

98. When I am around someone who feels depressed, it often makes me feel down too. 

105R. When people complain of physical ailments or pain, it does not seem very real to me. 

113. Whenever I hear a baby cry, I feel as though I can feel the child's pain.  

155. If a friend were to complain of having an especially bad headache, I would feel very distressed and 

concerned. 

163R. I am rarely bothered by the apparent suffering of strangers. 

174. If I were to see someone sleeping on the streets, it would upset me. 

214. Whenever I see a distressed look on a child's face, I feel uneasy and concerned. 

231R. If I were to see people on the news who are suffering as a result of war or starvation, I would not 

feel uneasy or disturbed. 

Empathic Guilt: The amount of distress in response  to negatively affecting other people. (Alpha = .84) 

79. When I believe that I have hurt someone's feelings, I feel guilty. 

13. I have a strong conscience. 

35. If I offended a stranger, I would feel guilty. 

49. If I were to steal from someone, I would feel very bad about it for a long time. 

64. If I were to impulsively take advantage of someone, I would later regret my behavior. 

93. If I were too busy to help out a friend who needs my help, I  would feel guilty. 

117R. If I were to steal from someone, I would not feel very bad about it. 

141. I sometimes feel remorseful about the way that I have treated a person. 

165R. People have told me that they wonder whether or not I have a conscience. 

187R. I sometimes seem to lack remorse for treating people badly. 

224. If I were to lose my temper and threaten someone, I would later feel guilty. 

246. Even if I disliked a person, I would feel guilty about hurting that person's feelings. 



Social Closeness:  Feelings of warmth, closeness, interest and involvement with others. (Alpha=.81) 

Active Closeness 

8. Without planning it, I often find myself doing nice things for people. 

11. When people feel overwhelmed by things that need to be done, I often help out. 

171. In order to help people I care about, I am willing to make personal sacrifices. 

202. I am a quite warm and friendly person. 

228. I like to do kind things for people. 

Receptive Closeness 

91. I like to watch people. 

132. I enjoy listening to other people talk about themselves. 

184. I like looking at other people's photographs. 

212R. I rarely enjoy listening to people tell stories about events that have happened in their lives. 

221. I am usually interested in hearing what people have to say. 

Relationship Closeness 

24. There are some people that I feel very close to. 

61. Relationships with family members seem to be especially important to me. 

77. Sometimes I become so close to another person that I want to do almost everything with them. 

108R. Having close friends is not especially important to me. 

160. Relationships seem to be especially important to me. 

169. I value having long-term close relationships with people. 

 

 


