
PATIENT HEALTH QUESTIONNAIRE (PHQ-9)DATE:NAME:Over the last 2 weeks, how often have you beenbothered by any of the following problems? Not at all Severaldays More thanhalf thedays Nearlyevery day(use "ⁿ" to indicate your answer) 0 1 2 3Little interest or pleasure in doing things1. 0 1 2 3Feeling down, depressed, or hopeless2. 0 1 2 3Trouble falling or staying asleep, or sleeping too much3. 0 1 2 3Feeling tired or having little energy4. 0 1 2 3Poor appetite or overeating5. 0 1 2 3Feeling bad about yourself   or that you are a failure orhave let yourself or your family down6. 0 1 2 3Trouble concentrating on things, such as reading thenewspaper or watching television7. 0 1 2 3Moving or speaking so slowly that other people couldhave noticed. Or the opposite    being so figety orrestless that you have been moving around a lot morethan usual8. 0 1 2 3Thoughts that you would be better off dead, or ofhurting yourself9. add columns + +TOTAL:(Healthcare professional: For interpretation of TOTAL,please refer to accompanying scoring card). Not difficult at allIf you checked off any problems, how difficulthave these problems made it for you to doyour work, take care of things at home, or getalong with other people?10. Somewhat difficultVery difficultExtremely difficultCopyright © 1999 Pfizer Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduced with permission. PRIME-MD© is a trademark of Pfizer Inc.A2663B 10-04-2005

ID #:

vhapaljohnsc
Typewritten Text
 



PHQ-9 Patient Depression Questionnaire 
 
For initial diagnosis: 
 

1. Patient completes PHQ-9 Quick Depression Assessment. 
2. If there are at least 4 s in the shaded section (including Questions #1 and #2), consider a depressive 

disorder. Add score to determine severity. 
 

Consider Major Depressive Disorder 
 

 - if there are at least 5 s in the shaded section (one of which corresponds to Question #1 or #2) 
 
Consider Other Depressive Disorder 
 

- if there are 2-4 s in the shaded section (one of which corresponds to Question #1 or #2) 
 
Note: Since the questionnaire relies on patient self-report, all responses should be verified by the clinician, 
and a definitive diagnosis is made on clinical grounds taking into account how well the patient understood 
the questionnaire, as well as other relevant information from the patient.  
Diagnoses of Major Depressive Disorder or Other Depressive Disorder also require impairment of social, 
occupational, or other important areas of functioning (Question #10) and ruling out normal bereavement, a 
history of a Manic Episode (Bipolar Disorder), and a physical disorder, medication, or other drug as the 
biological cause of the depressive symptoms.  
  
To monitor severity over time for newly diagnosed patients or patients in current treatment for 
depression: 
 

1. Patients may complete questionnaires at baseline and at regular intervals (eg, every 2 weeks) at 
home and bring them in at their next appointment for scoring or they may complete the 
questionnaire during each scheduled appointment. 

 

2. Add up s by column. For every : Several days = 1 More than half the days = 2 Nearly every day = 3 
 

3. Add together column scores to get a TOTAL score. 
 

4. Refer to the accompanying PHQ-9 Scoring Box to interpret the TOTAL score. 
 

5. Results may be included in patient files to assist you in setting up a treatment goal, determining degree of 
response, as well as guiding treatment intervention. 

 
Scoring:  add up all checked boxes on PHQ-9 
 
For every  Not at all = 0; Several days = 1; 
More than half the days = 2; Nearly every day = 3 
 
Interpretation of Total Score  
 

Total Score Depression Severity 
1-4  Minimal depression 
5-9  Mild depression 

10-14  Moderate depression 
15-19  Moderately severe depression 
20-27  Severe depression 

 
PHQ9 Copyright © Pfizer Inc.  All rights reserved.  Reproduced with permission. PRIME-MD ® is a 
trademark of Pfizer Inc. 
 
A2662B 10-04-2005 


	A2662B.PDF
	Consider Other Depressive Disorder
	Scoring:  add up all checked boxes on PHQ-9
	Interpretation of Total Score





