
K10

For all questions, please select the appropriate response.

In the past 4 weeks: None of 
the time

A little of 
the time

Some of 
the time

Most of 
the time

All of the 
time

1. About how often did you feel 
tired out for no good reason?

2. About how often did you feel 
nervous?

3. About how often did you feel 
so nervous that nothing could 
calm you down?

4. About how often did you feel 
hopeless?

5 About how often did you feel 
restless or fidgety?

6. About how often did you feel 
so restless you could not sit 
still?

7. About how often did you feel 
depressed?

8. About how often did you feel 
that everything was an effort?

9. About how often did you feel 
so sad that nothing could cheer 
you up?

10. About how often did you feel 
worthless?

This document may be freely downloaded and distributed on condition no change is made to the content. The information in this document is not intended as asubstitute for professional medical advice, 

diagnosis or treatment. Not to be used for commercial purposes and not to be hosted electronically outside of the Black Dog In stitute website. www.blackdoginstitute.org.au

Today’s Date: _  _  /  _  _  /  _  _  _  _ 



This document may be freely downloaded and distributed on condition no change is made to the content. The information in this document is not intended as asubstitute for professional medical advice, 

diagnosis or treatment. Not to be used for commercial purposes and not to be hosted electronically outside of the Black Dog Institute website. www.blackdoginstitute.org.au

Explanatory Notes

K10

What is the K10 and how is it scored?

The K10 is widely recommended as a simple measure of psychological distress and as a measure
of outcomes following treatment for common mental health disorders. The K10 is in the public
domain and is promoted on the Clinical Research Unit for Anxiety and Depression website
(www.crufad.org) as a self report measure to identify need for treatment.

The K10 uses a five value response option for each question – all of the time, most of the time,
some of the time, a little of the time and none of the time which can be scored from five through to
one.

The maximum score is 50 indicating severe distress, the minimum score is 10 indicating no
distress.

Questions 3 and 6 are not asked if the preceding question was ‘none of the time’ in which case
questions 3 and 6 would automatically receive a score of one.

For further information on the K10 please refer to www.crufad.org or Andrews, G Slade, T.
Interpreting score on the Kessler Psychological Distress Scale (K10). Australia and New Zealand
Journal of Public Health: 2001; 25:6: 494-497.


